# RSA Factoring Challenge
RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adleman) is a widely used cryptographic algorithm that involves two key components: public

key encryption and digital signatures.

The security of RSA relies on the difficulty of factoring large composite numbers into their prime factors.

The RSA Factoring Challenge is a project that aims to demonstrate the difficulty of factoring large numbers by

challenging participants to factorize specific RSA-modulus numbers. These numbers are generated by multiplying two

large prime numbers together, making it computationally infeasible to determine the prime factors without specialized

algorithms or significant computational resources.

The program provided in this repository offers a solution to the RSA Factoring Challenge by implementing an algorithm

to factorize given numbers into their prime factors. It utilizes the GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library (GMP) to

handle large numbers efficiently.

## Prerequisites
Before running the program, ensure that you have the following prerequisites installed:

- GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library (GMP)

## Installation

- Clone the repository:

`git clone https://github.com/zuriel0001/RSA-Factoring-Challenge.git`

- Compile the source code:

`gcc *.c -o factors -lgmp`

## Usage

There are test files in the `test   directory.

To run the program, use the following command:

`./factors <filename>`

`./rsa tests/rsa-1`

Replace <filename> with the path to the file containing the numbers to factorize.

## File Format
The input file should contain one number per line. Each line should consist of a single integer to be factorized.

## Example

Suppose we have a file named **test00** located in the tests directory with the following content:

4

1024

4958

Running the program with the command `./factors tests/test00` will output:

4=2*2

1024=512*2

4958=2479*2

Supposed file named `rsa-1` located in the `tests` directory with the following content:

6

Running the program with the command `./factors tests/rsa-1` will output:

6 = 3*2

Similarly, running the program with the command `./factors tests/rsa-16` will output:

2497885147362973=49979141*49978553

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you find any issues or want to enhance the program, feel free to create a pull request.
